okay so as with the previous lesson
where we've got e-minor and G major
pentatonic scales that are related to
each other they've got common notes
we've also got a relative major
pentatonic scale from the a minor so
instead of starting from open a open
string 5 we're going to miss that no
doubt this time we're going to start
from the next note up from the scale
which was fret 3 1 string 5 and that
note is AC so this time we're going to
play a C major pentatonic scale so we're
starting from this fret 3 and we go
straight to open string 4 so remember we
use all of the same notes from the minor
scale so open string 4 and then we go to
fret 2 on string 4 and then we go to
open string 3 and then we go to fret 2
on string 3 and then we go straight to
fret one string 2 so that is our octave
because starting from the base note for
at three string 5c we've got one two
three four five and the next is the
octave so for carry on from there we go
straight to fret 3 on our second string
and then we go straight to open string 1
and then we go straight to fret 3
now we've not got too many notes there
in that second octave so we're going to
have to shift quite high at the the neck
of the guitar in order to go to the
second octave of C so however got this
if you want so we're going to shift a
whole hand position up including a thumb
two frets so finger three is now in fret
5 of my top string and then that's still
not see I need to go one more note in
the scale so this time I'm going three
frets higher right up to 48 on string
one so there's see there's my second
octave
okay so for all of the notes on string
one when you're going up you want to
just shift up each time and use your
third finger so if you're going to come
back down from there it's a little bit
of a stretch you're going to have to go
back down with your first finger to fret
5 so don't shift your position so you've
got your third finger for at eight and
then just reach back with your first
finger fret 5 now you shift your
position your first finger goes back to
fret 3 and all on string 1 and then open
string 1
so I'll just do that again so my third
finger is on 48 to start with that my
octave that's the sea reach back down
with your first finger don't shift your
position first finger fret 5 and then
shift your position down first finger
fret 3 and then open string 1 and as you
play open string one shift your thumb
position down so you've now back in the
open position you start in position and
then your third finger plays fret 3 on
string 2 and then first finger plays
fret one on string 2 and that's back to
our middle octave and then to carry on
all the way down to the base the the low
octave we go to fret 2 3rd string open
and then fret 2 4th string open and then
fret 3 string 5 and that's our root
notes our C so start from see